# Supplementary code for "Diminished Variability of Alpha and Beta Band-limited Power as a Neural Signature in Schizophrenia" by Racz et al. (2025).

This folder contains the complete analysis pipeline for the aformentioned project. The scripts reproduce the main analysis outcomes and figures published in the manuscript. Pipeline is as follows:

- Run **analysis scripts** first (_script_01_analyze_BLP_ec.m_, _script_01_analyze_BLP_eo.m_, _script_01_analyze_BLP_ec_surrogate.m_, _script_01_analyze_BLP_eo_surrogate.m_). These will generate matlab workspaces for every participant separately in folders 'results_BLP_ec', 'results_BLP_eo', 'results_surrogate_ec' and 'results_surrogate_eo', storing all neural indices involved in subsequent statistical evaluation.
  - NOTE: since surrogate data testing involves randomization of phases, previously obtained results are already provided in folders 'results_surrogate_ec' and   'results_surrogate_eo'. Re-running the corresponding scripts will overwrite these outcomes, possibly resulting in slight discrepancies in obtained outcomes and those reported in the manuscript.

- Then, run **statistics scripts** (_script_02_statistics_BLP_ec.m_, _script_02_statistics_BLP_eo.m_, _script_02_statistics_BLP_vs_eo_ec.m_, _script_02_statistics_BLP_state_response.m_). These require the output workspaces created by the analysis scripts in the previous step. These scripts also save the outcomes in matlab workspaces in the 'miscellaneous' subfolder for between-group comparisons (ws_results_BLP_ec.mat, ws_results_BLP_eo.mat, ws_results_BLP_vs.mat, ws_results_BLP_response.mat) and correlations between neural indices and clinical symptom scores in the Schizophrenia group (ws_correlations_BLP_ec.mat, ws_correlations_BLP_eo.mat, ws_correlations_BLP_vs.mat).

- To re-create all plots presented in the manuscript --- except for the channel layout image, which was generated by BrainNet Viewer (Xia, M., Wang, J., He, Y.: Brainnet viewer: a network visualization tool for human brain connectomics. PloS one 8(7), 68910 (2013)) ---, run the **plotting scripts** (_script_03_plot_BLP_ec_results.m_, _script_03_plot_BLP_eo_results.m_, _script_03_plot_BLP_vs_results.m_). These scripts mainly utilize the results workspaces generated by the statistics scripts in the previous step. Figures for the main outcomes are plotted and then export in .png format into a 'figures' folder.

- For supplementary analyses, run the **statistics and plotting** scripts (script_02_statistics_plot_BLP_surrogate.m_, _script_02_statistics_plot_BLP_CPZ_correlations.m_, _script_02_statistics_plot_BLP_IRASA_regression.m_).

- All outcomes from correlation analyses between spectral indices and clinical symptom scroes can be aggregated by running _script_04_sort_all_correlations.m_ after all previous steps are completed.


**NOTE**: Data preprocessing involved automated EEG artifact rejection using the Multiple Artifact Rejection Algorithm (Winkler, I., Haufe, S., Tangermann, M.: Automatic classification of artifactual ica-components for artifact removal in eeg signals. Behavioral and brain functions 7, 1–15 (2011)). This step introduces some extent of randomness in the classification of independent components as artifact or neural signal, and therefore can lead to slight discrepancies in outcomes. To ensure reproducibility of the outcomes reported in the manuscript, here we only provide the  pre-processed EEG segments that were analyzed for the manuscript. Raw EEG data will be made available via [zenodo.org] 

the code loads the pre-processed EEG data from Matlab workspaces (in data_ec_mara_avg_256Hz_mat/); however, pre-processed EEG is also provided in .edf format (in data_ec_mara_avg_256Hz/).




**When using this resource, please cite** Racz, F.S., Farkas, K., Becske, M. *et al*. Reduced temporal variability of cortical excitation/inhibition ratio in schizophrenia. *Schizophr* **11**, 20 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41537-025-00568-3

Frigyes Samuel Racz

The University of Texas at Austin

email: fsr324@austin.utexas.edu

2025.
